# DCRequestAPI

The DCRequestAPI provide access to data stored in one or more [DiversityCollection](https://www.diversityworkbench.net/dwb_main.html) database instances. 
It uses ElasticSearch to implement fast search options. The DCRequestAPI handles access rights as set in `Withholding`-fields in DiversityCollection database.
Logged in users have access to all data in their projects, unauthrorized users can only access public data.


## Setup

### On bare metal

#### System requirements

 - Python 3
 - an ODBC Driver and TDS
 - MySQL
 - git

E. g. install system requirements in Ubuntu:

    sudo apt-get install software-properties-common python3-dev python3-setuptools python3-pip unixodbc unixodbc-dev tdsodbc mysql-server mysql-client git


 - A running ElasticSearch instance (see [Installing ElasticSearch](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/install-elasticsearch.html))


#### Set up and activate a virtual python environment

    python3 -m venv ./dcrequestapi
    cd ./dcrequestapi
    source bin/activate

#### Download sources

    git clone https://github.com/bjquast/DCRequestAPI.git


#### Set up DCRequestAPI in virtual environment

    cd DCRequestAPI
    python3 setup.py develop


#### Configuration

Copy the file ./config.ini.template to ./config.ini:

    cp ./config.ini.template ./config.ini

Add at least one connection to a DiversityCollection database in a section with the prefix **data_source_**. 
Multiple databases can be used when more than one of these sections are in the config.ini file. These sections must have a unique 
name after the **data_source_**-prefix and a unique **accronym** entry. 

Replace the `@@`enclosed variables with the according parameters

    [data_source_DS1]
    accronym = @@DS1_ACCRONYM@@
    server   = @@DS1_SERVER@@
    database = @@DS1_DATABASE@@
    port     = @@DS1_PORT@@
    driver   = @@DS1_DRIVER@@
    uid      = @@DS1_UID@@
    password = @@DS1_PASSWORD@@


A MySQL database must be available for the **dwb_authentication**. This database can be empty, but must be available for a MySQL root user with 
the password given in the entry **root_password**.    

    [authentication_db]
    host = @@MYSQL_HOST@@
    port = @@MYSQL_PORT@@
    user = @@MYSQL_USER@@
    password = @@MYSQL_PASSWORD@@
    database = @@MYSQL_DATABASE@@
    root_password = @@MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD@@

The **taxamergerdb** entry is used to provide a MySQL database with a curated taxonomy that is used to match the identifications 
in DiversityCollection with. This **taxamergerdb** can be a database that is generated by merging several DiversityTaxonNames databases so that the
relations between Identifications in DiversityCollection and DiversityTaxonNames can be preserved. 
The code for generating such a merged database is available under: [tnt_taxa_merger](https://github.com/ZFMK/tnt_taxa_merger). 
When no taxamergerdb is available the entry **skip_taxa_db** must be set to a true value (True, true, or 1).

    [taxamergerdb]
    # set true when taxamergerdb is not available
    skip_taxa_db = @@SKIP_TAXA_MERGER_DB@@
    host = @@MYSQL_HOST@@
    user = @@MYSQL_USER@@
    port = @@MYSQL_PORT@@
    password = @@MYSQL_PASSWORD@@
    database = @@TAXA_MERGER_DB@@


Edit the file ./production.ini to set the port (**port**), protocol (**url_sheme**), and a possible URL base path (**url_prefix**) for the internal [Waitress](https://docs.pylonsproject.org/projects/waitress/en/stable/index.html) web service.


Overwrite the given default values when needed

    [server:main]
    use = egg:waitress#main
    port = 6553
    url_scheme = https
    url_prefix = /dcrequestapi




### docker
